# ok_cupid_project

This was a Codecademy Pro Portfolio project aimed at practicing the formulation of questions which can be answered by machine learning models, building such models, and evaluating those models. No specific instructions as to how to complete the project were provided by Codecademy; however, I rapidly realized that it is nothing more than a work-over of what used to be a Codecademy "Capstone" project. My strategy was therefore to use some of the hints provided by Codecademy in the earlier "Capstone" version of the project while developing my own questions and taking the project in a direction that seemed to be most appropriate for the data at hand. My findings are summarized in a series of PowerPoint slides.

The .pdf file which contains my PowerPoint slides is included in this repository as "ok_cupid_portfolio_presentation.pdf."

The project itself was done with Python 3.0 and Jupyter Notebook. I used the data set "profiles.csv" as provided to me by Codecademy, and utilized Pandas, NumPy, Seaborn, Matplotlib, re, the SciPy package stats, and the scikit-learn packages model_selection, preprocessing, neighbors, linear_model, svm, feature_extraction, naive_bayes, and metrics in my analysis. The Jupyter Notebook file containing my analysis is included as "ok_cupid_portfolio_project_MAC.ipynb."

The actual data file itself, "profiles.csv," is too large to upload to this repository even after ultra compression. If I can figure out how to compress the file to under the 25MB upload limit, I will upload it. 

I included two earlier versions of this project so that readers can see how my thinking evolved and some things I tried that didn't work. The first of these earlier versions of the project, "ok_cupid_analysis_1_MAC.ipynb," was written when the project was still a Codecademy "Capstone" project. As such, it reflects many of the hints provided by Codecademy for the old "Capstone" project. The second earlier version of the project, "ok_cupid_analysis_2_MAC.ipynb," was written after Codecademy converted the OK Cupid project from "Capstone" to "Portfolio." Both of these files are being provided as-is, without any additional comments or organization. They are "raw" code files which are aimed to illustrate how the project evolved, why I chose not to work with some of the features in the data set, and how my thinking evolved over time.
